# MBaC : Math rock and math stuff
## Johann Scott - 05/02/2021

What a week.
I'm still in school doing teams lessons so I can't dedicate all my time to this project, but damn I've been working on this. The computer architecture didn't take too long - I owe that in part to the simplicity of it and the fact that I'm wayyyy too naïve to design a computer system properly. The main issue of the latter half of my week was designing the ALU. The approach to maths in triador was largely based in incrementing and decrementing the number stored in a given register; this operation being done in C, and therefore the maths was done by the binary ALU of the computer running it. Granted, it's only an emulation, but I want MBaC to feel realer. With that in mind, I set out looking for logic circuits for addition and subtraction. At this point, I want to thank Dr Douglas Jones from the University of Iowa - he's got a brilliant [ternary manifesto](http://homepage.divms.uiowa.edu/~jones/ternary/) that helped me out with logic gates, ternary concepts, and so much more. Well worth reading.

Dr Jones had a full balanced ternary adder available on the manifesto, so after building up a little program to test out all the gates and a class for the gates to inherit, I'd implemented an addition and subtraction circuit into the computer. The ALU still needs a little work, I'm pushing this to GitHub now so I don't lose anything (this took me ages). Aside from that, all is well on the front.

By the way, all the people who say that music can't help you work are wrong. Wayne Szalinski, The Speed of Sound in Seawater, flor, all great bands. I couldn't have spent hours looking at truth tables were it not for these sounds.

Until then, jas.

System.Windows.Forms.Application.Exit();
